Programming Environment 101
===========================

The goal of this course is to use Python to make things happen inside the Minecraft world.

I will go over the details, but our typical work flow will consist of:

  1. Being logged into the Minecraft client and connected to the server
  2. Using the iPython console to try out different commands
  3. Writing longer files and then running them individually


Using the iPython console
-------------------------

In using the iPython console, we can do basic commands. 

First, you start by importing the library:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    from mcpi.minecraft import Minecraft
    mc = Minecraft.create()


This does the following steps:

1. Look where Python usually looks for, and find the library called mcpi
2. From mcpi, look inside the minecraft module/file and get the Minecraft class
3. Use the Minecraft class to connect to the Minecraft server (which should be running).

Note: If you close the server, this connection will close. 

With this imported, we can now send commands to the server

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    # send your player into the air
    mc.player.setPos((0,500,0))


Using longer files by themselves
--------------------------------

There are two ways to use longer files.  The first way is to write the file
and then run it.  This would look like

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    from mcpi.minecraft import Minecraft
    mc = Minecraft.create()

    mc.player.setPos((0,500,0))

    print("Player is flying!")

Now, you can just run that file. 


Using longer files as a library
-------------------------------

Another way to use longer files is to make a more advanced library.  Then, we can import
functions the same way we imported mcpi.  This requires setting your Python Path. 

The Python Path is a variable that your operating system keeps track of.
It is actually just a collection of paths.  A path is a single folder location on your
computer.  For example, a path could be "C:\Program Files"

The Python Path tells Python "Hey! When you want libraries.. come ask me where to look".  
Anything outside of the paths it stores will not be checked. 

So, if we want to use our longer files as a library, we have to set this.  

- `Windows 7 <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/25153802/how-to-set-python-path-in-windows-7>`_
- `Windows 10 <http://www.anthonydebarros.com/2015/08/16/setting-up-python-in-windows-10/>`_
- `Mac <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15742779/how-can-i-edit-pythonpath-on-a-mac>`_

The folder you want to add to your python path is going to be the folder JUST ABOVE 
your library folder.

So, if your library is in the folder **C:\\code\\mclibrary**, then you would add **C:\\code** to the python path. 